---
sidebar_position: 1
---
# DiscoveryDEX Whitepaper
>Version 0.0.3-beta ~ Sept. 17, 2022

## Overview

DiscoveryDEX is designed to be a derivatives-based AMM that trades short-term futures on token pairs, traded at a consensus price generated by a real-time weighted average that can be hedged with the corresponding short-term option.  The result is a more stable price discovery mechanism, as described below.

DiscoveryDEX protocol has the following improvements over it’s predecessor, Microtick protocol:


* Simplifications have been made to run better inside a smart contract as the project moves from Cosmos SDK chain to an Ethereum layer 2 chain.  
* Premium pricing for options is complicated.  Microtick’s protocol was designed to allow each maker to price their own individual premiums, intended to be submitted along with the price assertion.  Discovery DEX creates liquidity pools for makers instead, leaving the premium price to be determined by the open market (as a parameter inside the liquidity pool smart contract) by option buyers and sellers (takers).
* DiscoveryDEX collateral pools distribute option contract short-side risk by pooling maker’s backing collateral, as well as rewards earned from long-side trades, between all matched trades.
* DiscoveryDEX liquidity pools earn fees through price disagreement between maker price assertions.  Takers always pay the market premium but trades are matched using the linear discount approximation, the same approximation as in the original Microtick protocol.  The difference between the market premium (what the taker pays) and the discounted premium (what the collateral pool receives) is contributed to the liquidity pool as its fee.  The more price disagreement between makers the more the liquidity pool earns.
